---
slug: "/stories/staciegrossmanbloom"
date: "2019-06-07"
title: "Stacie Grossman Bloom"
tags: ["story", "event"]
---
### Official Story
Stacie Grossman Bloom earned her Ph.D. in cell biology from Georgetown University and her B.A. in Psychology from the University of Delaware. A molecular neurobiologist by training, she completed her postdoctoral training at the Rockefeller University in the lab of Nobel laureate Paul Greengard studying the neurological basis for disease. Dr. Bloom was an associate editor at Nature Medicine, then Vice President and Scientific Director of The New York Academy of Sciences. She was awarded a Society for Neuroscience prize for outstanding dedication to mentorship, and held fellowships at the National Institutes of Health, National Institutes of Mental Health, National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, and the Rockefeller University's Women in Science Program. A prolific author and speaker, she was featured most recently in Forbes, on SiriusXM radio, the BBC, at the National Academy of Sciences, and at The Women in the World summit. Stacie joined NYU Langone Medical Center in 2011 as inaugural Executive Director for the Neuroscience Institute and then became Assistant Vice President for Policy and Administration. Now she serves as Vice Provost of Research at NYU, working closely with the president, provost, deans, faculty, and senior administrators to facilitate, energize, and grow the University's research enterprise and its impact.

### Unofficial Story
Stacie was born in Brooklyn to a native Brooklyn mother and an immigrant father from Romania. Her grandparents were miraculous holocaust survivors. Her early childhood is probably similar to that of the offspring of many other Jewish immigrant families where an education was seen as the most important thing for the family to secure their place in the United States. Perhaps in that way Stacie's fate was sealed, however the nearly half century from then to now has been twisty and unexpected. Stacie went to high school in Spring Valley, just north of NYC in a diverse, middle-class neighborhood where her grades and test scores were good enough to get her into the University of Delaware. The first in her family to go off to college, Stacie majored in Psychology and earned herself a mediocre 3.2 GPA. In her junior year, she started taking graduate level neuroscience courses and the world unfolded around her, mysterious and magical. Her grades in those classes were all A's and, able to show a positive academic trajectory and good (enough) GRE scores, she applied for PhD programs in neuroscience while a senior in college. Stacie was accepted to Georgetown's interdisciplinary program in Neuroscience on the premise that she start three months before her classmates, due to her utter lack of wet lab experience. She rallied in graduate school, publishing her very first paper in the respectable Journal of Neuroscience and earning a PhD in five years. Stacie left DC for the Rockefeller University where she started a post doc in Paul Greengard's lab five months before he won the Nobel Prize. While her postdoc experience was the stuff of dreams (Money! Equipment! Housing! Grants! Papers! Free food!), Stacie knew she was not cut out for the lab life. She left the lab in 2002 to do an internship at Nature Medicine, where she later became assistant ,then associate editor. She refers to this transition from post-doc to editor as going from being an inch wide and a mile deep in a small field to being a mile wide and an inch deep in biomedicine. After a few years and with an enormous network, Stacie's aspirations led her to The New York Academy of Sciences where, over the course of five years and the birth of three children, she ultimately became the Vice President and Scientific Director. When her smallest child was 1, Stacie accepted a role as the inaugural Executive Director of the NYU Neuroscience Institute, where she spent two years working side by side with Dick Tsien. She moved onto a larger role in 2013 overseeing finance and administration across NYU Langone's basic science and clinical departments and institutes. In May 2018 she applied for the job of Vice Provost for Research for NYU and she has just completed her first academic year. In her free time, Stacie loves hanging out with her family, reading, hiking, running, and traveling. She attributes her success to her family, and to the many mentors and supporters who have held her up, allowing her to achieve things she would never have even dreamed possible.
