---
slug: "/stories/stephonalexander"
date: "2022-02-28"
title: "Stephon Alexander"
tags: ["story", "event"]
---
### Official Story
I am a professor of physics at Brown University. I am a theoretical physicists whose research is at the interface of early universe cosmology, particle physics, quantum gravity and computational physics. I also engage in interdisciplinary research in the mathematics of music and physics. I did my B.S in physics and a minor in sociology at Haverford College. I also hold two Masters degrees in Electrical Engineering and Physics and my Ph.D in Physics from Brown University. I did my first Posdoctoral work at Imperial College, London and the second one at the Stanford University Linear Accelerator Center. I previously held faculty positions at Penn State, Haverford College, Dartmouth College. I am currently the president of the National Society of Black Physicists.

### Unofficial Story
I was born in Trinidad, a part of the twin Island republic of Trinidad and Tobago. My family immigrated to the Bronx NY when I was eight in 1979. I attended P.S 16, JHS 142 and De Witt Clinton High School, all in the Bronx and received a first rate public school education. My upbringing in the Bronx is pivotal in shaping me as a scientist. My neighborhood, middle and high schools, were infused with the five elements of hip hop culture. As a teen, I engaged in a little grafitti, and producing hip hop beats at strong city studios (Rocky Bucano, Afrika Bambatta, Jazzy Jay). I was also influenced by Avant Garde jazz and am mainly a self taught Tenor and Soprano Sax player (though I received mentoring from Ornette Coleman and Will Calhoun). During my postdoc years, I was introduced to Brian Eno at a Quantum Gravity Cocktail party. Brian played a major role in enabling me to make connections between my physics theorizing and jazz improvisations. This ultimately led to my book, The Jazz of Physics. I also managed to produce a critically acclaimed electronic Jazz album with Rioux (aka Tristan Arp), entitled Here Comes Now. For over a decade I was a comptetivie 800 meter and cross country runner and never got to run my dream time of 1:50 in the 800. I now walk for exercise, due to overuse injuries from competitive running. I have engaged a years of Zen practice (on and off) and am an avid reader of both eastern and western philosophy. I am blessed to be the father of a 14 year old daughter who lives in Reykjavic, Iceland. She visits me twice a year and we are great pals.